compose-app: Add tutorial about checking App states (#404)
foundriesio/docs: source/tutorials/compose-app/compose-app-checking-app-state.rst

.. _tutorial-compose-app-checking-app-state:

Checking App State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> A new feature that allows tracking states of Apps running on a device becomes available in LmP v88.

Reviewer: This opens up a big topic. I'm not sure we ever use language like this. This document will be in the v88 release and isn't in the ones before. I think we can drop this line.

Author: The doc will be in v88, but devices won't be. The guide is applicable only for devices running >= v88.

Reviewer: that's true of most lmp features we add, but I don't think we generally include wording. e.g. 

 https://docs.foundries.io/latest/reference-manual/security/secure-boot-uefi.html

was added to v87 but we don't denote that.

Author: sure, I replaced this sentence with another introductory sentence.

The update agent, running on a device, inquires Docker Engine about states of Apps' containers, process response, and send a states summary to Device Gateway.
The state enquiry happens periodically just before checking for an update.

> The :ref:`aktualizr-lite parameter <ref-aktualizr-lite-params>` named `polling_sec` defines an interval for an update check and, correspondingly for the App states enquiry on a device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`aktualizr-lite parameter <ref-aktualizr-lite-params>` named ``polling_sec`` defines an interval for an update check and, correspondingly for the App states enquiry on a device.
```

> The :ref:`aktualizr-lite parameter <ref-aktualizr-lite-params>` ``polling_sec`` defines an interval for an update check and, correspondingly for the App states enquiry on a device.

Author: `App state` as a collective noun mean "a state of many Apps"?

`Aktualizr-lite` reports a states summary only if it has changed since the last check or just after device reboot or `aktualizr-lite` restart.

> The Fio backend stores just the last 10 states.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Important::  The Fio backend stores the last 10 states.
```
Changed into admonition. Also, what is meant by "Fio"? This should use "FoundriesFactory" for a general reference to anything on the backend, or otherwise the specific tool (I started to look, but there are so many *fio* repos...).

Author: I replaced `Fio` with `FoundriesFactory`.

> App's container health is determined by a health check script, if enabled, otherwise is deduced from a container state and exit code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Container health is determined by a health check script, if enabled, otherwise is deduced from a container state and exit code.
```

> Container health is determined by a health check script, if enabled, otherwise is deduced from a container state and exit code.
> Specifically, a container must be in `running` state or `exited` state with exit code equal zero to be considered healthy.
> App's state is considered *healthy* only if its each container/service is *healthy*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If enabled, container health can get determined by a health check script.
Otherwise container health gets deduced from a container state and exit code.
A healthy container is one in either a ``running`` state or a ``exited`` state with exit code equal to zero.
An App's state is *healthy* only if its each container/service is *healthy*.
```

> A user can see summary of Apps state in an output of ``fioctl devices show <device name>`` command.
> The output includes list of *healthy* and *unhealthy* Apps, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
View a summary of App states using the ``fioctl devices show <device name>`` command.
The output lists  *healthy* and *unhealthy* Apps. For example:
```

Author: I updated it with one correction, it is actually a summary of one state, not many.

> .. prompt:: bash host:~$

Reviewer: this isn't rendering correctly. i'm finding the "prompt host" thing to only be useful when sharing a single line command that you don't share the output of.

maybe katrina can provide some guidance on how we should do snippets like this - i really struggled on the best approach during my last docs change

Reviewer 2: @doanac, I will write some guidance on this early next week, and will fix any rendering issues when I do my full review here.

Author: I see `.. prompt:: text` is applied in many places.

        fioctl devices show 58e6e47d-3d2c-415b-afa4-cdc5e0229355

        UUID:		58e6e47d-3d2c-415b-afa4-cdc5e0229355
        Owner:		5e9dc69d7407c5010eed1c5a
        Factory:	<factory>
        Production:	false
        Up to date:	true
        Target:		intel-corei7-64-lmp-1526 / sha256(d6c101e33e6403f8c9aac18b8f8b1393a6b6866eead53631756c90f97b2838eb)
        Ostree Hash:	d6c101e33e6403f8c9aac18b8f8b1393a6b6866eead53631756c90f97b2838eb
        Created At:	2022-08-12T12:58:28+00:00
        Created By:	5e9dc69d7407c5010eed1c5a
        Last Seen:	2022-08-12T13:21:04+00:00
        Tag:		master
        Docker Apps:	app-03,app-04,app-05,app-06,one-shot,one-shot-failing
        Healthy Apps:	one-shot
        Unhealthy Apps:	one-shot-failing,app-06,app-05,app-04,app-03

> A customer can inspect reported states by running ``fioctl devices apps-states <device name>`` command.
> The command yields the last reported state by default. To output more states the command flag  `-n/--limit` should be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inspect the reported states by running the ``fioctl devices apps-states <device name>`` command.
The command prints the last reported state of the Apps by default. To output more states, use the ``-n/--limit`` flag.
```

> The following is a template of information yielded by the command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output uses the following template:
```

                    Hash:	5e37e8078a673d2970db60f65a4bb47fc504a3f63945bc8b66d0ee16e3649727
                    Health:	unhealthy
                    State:	exited
                    Status:	Exited (137) 6 seconds ago

            app-05
                python-www:
                    URI:	hub.foundries.io/factory/app-05@sha256:0ec7cd4f8e0443f26f5d1173a6415cb394bebebb9c50339ea1e7a396988c4e63
                    Hash:	f1d3106d102f615c90685fe0de7f472e4a7ac402dfe22489250975b42ed0a432
                    Health:	unhealthy
                    State:	exited
                    Status:	Exited (137) 58 seconds ago

        Healthy Apps:
            one-shot
                one-shot-app:
                    URI:	hub.foundries.io/factory/alpine@sha256:aef972662b84a23eb55b87caec80967f2c6a1d6f697cb16822bf75e2bfece82a
                    Hash:	8022ec49a307494af0fbffea90ac32e7eb3da4eb894d24b262651a296f31d090
                    Health:	healthy
                    State:	exited
                    Status:	Exited (0) 2 minutes ago

Also, a user may subscribe for Apps state change events if Event Queue is enabled for their Factory.

> The event type for an Apps state is `DEVICE_OTA_APPS_STATE_CHANGED`, see :ref:`Event Queues <ref-event-queues>` for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The event type for an Apps state is ``DEVICE_OTA_APPS_STATE_CHANGED``, see :ref:`Event Queues <ref-event-queues>` for more details.
```

> Also, a customer may subscribe for Apps state change events if Event Queue is enabled for their Factory.
> The event type for an Apps state is ``DEVICE_OTA_APPS_STATE_CHANGED``, see :ref:`Event Queues <ref-event-queues>` for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, by enabling Event Queue for a Factory, you can subscribe for App state change events.
The event type for an App's state is ``DEVICE_OTA_APPS_STATE_CHANGED``.
See :ref:`Event Queues <ref-event-queues>` for more details.
```

Author: e.g. here `may subscribe for Apps state` I meant a state of Apps, so I am not sure that `an App's state` is technically correct because it implies that there is just one App.

Reviewer 2: @mike-sul Updated! and yeah, re-reading it, I grok what you are saying.

Author: So, `an App state` is a collective noun in this context, meaning a state of many Apps?

.. _tutorial-compose-app-checking-app-state:

Checking App State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This page outlines the implementation of App status reporting and how to check the state of Apps running on a device.

The update agent running on a device inquires Docker Engine about the state of App containers, processes response, and sends a states summary to Device Gateway.
The state inquiry happens periodically, always before checking for an update.
The :ref:`aktualizr-lite parameter <ref-aktualizr-lite-params>` ``polling_sec`` defines the interval for an update check, it is responsible for the App state inquiry interval as well.

``aktualizr-lite`` reports a state summary:

- only if it has changed since the last check
- directly after device reboot
- when ``aktualizr-lite`` restarts.

.. Important:: The FoundriesFactory backend stores just the last 10 states.

> If enabled, container health can get determined by a health check script.

Reviewer: Sorry I missed this, but we should probably link "health check" to something like https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck

otherwise, i'm +1.

Author: makes sense, updated.
